Analysis of a data set derived from the Human Activity Recognition 
Using Smartphones project. 

The source data set is a table of 10299 rows x 561 columns containing 
velocity and acceleration measurements recorded from 30 subjects 
performing six different activities of daily living (ADL) 
while carrying a waist-mounted smartphone with embedded inertial sensors.

A description of the methodology of the project can be found at :-
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

The table was divided into two files designated 'training' and 'test' 
measurements, there were associated files containing information on 
subject ID, activity ID, activity description, and descriptive column headings.

Method of analysis

It was required to extract from the data all columns containing the text 
'mean' or 'std' (standard deviation) in the column headings and to calculate 
the mean values of all these measurements for each subject perfoming each activity .

The 'training' and 'test' data files were merged, the subset of columns required 
was determined by matching the text 'mean' and .std' in the column heading file 
and a data file (X_merged.txt) was constructed, ordered using activity ID as 
primay key and  subject ID as secondary key, and containing 10299 rows with 
columns for :-

Activity description
Subject ID
79 columns of measurements on 'mean' and 'std'

The means of the measurements on each of the 30 subjects performing each of the 
six activities was calculated and a file (Activity_means.txt) of 180 rows x 81 
columns constructed.

Citation :

The source data for the project are derived from the Human Activity Recognition 
Using Smartphones project by :- 

Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. 
Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly 
Support Vector Machine. 
International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, 
Spain. Dec 2012
